[cicadas crying]
[yells]
[TEPPEI grunts]
[TEPPEI groans]
Shit.
[KEIICHI] Oh, yeah?
You think you're in pain?
What about Satoko?
You don't even know
what real pain is!
[roars]
[gasps]
[RENA] You're extra
late today, Keiichi!
You overslept again, didn't you?
Didn't you?
Yeah, sorry, Rena.
This weird dream woke me up,
and I couldn't get back
to sleep afterwards.
[RENA]
A weird dream? About what?
[KEIICHI]
I can't remember the details,
but I think it had something
to do with Satoko.
Oh, crap, we gotta go!
Oh! Yeah, you're right,
we're gonna be late!
Let's hurry!
Mion's gonna chew us out so bad!
[school bell ringing]
[ALL 3 pant]
[RENA]
We made it in time.
You two are really
somethin' else.
[KEIICHI]
Wait.
Did we actually get here
before Satoko and Rika.
That's so strange.
Those two never
show up to class late.
You think maybe Satoko ate
too much at the barbecue
and needed to take
a day to sleep it off?
You okay, Mion?
It's good to see
you again, everyone.
Shall we start? Class Rep?
Oh right!
Everyone, stand up!
[CHIE] Ms. Furude, you're late,
and where is Ms. Hojo?
[KEIICHI]
Rika?
I'm sorry, ma'am.
Satoko might come
in a bit late today.
[CHIE]
I see.
[KEIICHI]
Hey.
Whoever would've thought you
would show up late for school?
And you got yelled at too,
you poor thing!
Mii.
So where is Satoko?
Is she sick?
[KEIICHI]
Dammit.
Come on!
[TOMITA]
All right, Maebara. Got it!
[sighs]
[OKAMURA, TOMITA]
Thank you so much!
[OOISHI]
Hello, young man. How do you do?
So sorry if I'm interrupting
your lunch hour.
Easy, son, I'm not
just skulking around.
I'm a detective
with the Okinomiya PD.
Name's Oishi,
pleased to meet you.
[KEIICHI]
The police?
The teacher's that way.
Oh, no.
See, I actually came here
to have a brief discussion
with a classmate of yours.
Name of Satoko Hojo.
And what do you need
to talk to her for?
Nothing you need to worry about.
Just a few questions
I need answered.
Could you spare a moment
to help me find her?
If you have questions for her,
why not just call her house?
Don't go prowling around
looking for her at school.
That's messed up.
[laughs]
Well you sure told me.
So should I call you up
and schedule an
appointment next time?
Excuse me, girls!
[OIISHI] Would you two mind
finding Satoko Hojo
and bringing her here?
[GIRL A]
Oh.
[GIRL B]
Sorry sir, she isn't here today.
Is that right?
[laughs]
Great, just my luck.
Well then, could one
of you give me the name
of this young fellow right here?
[GIRL A]
Keiichi Maebara, sir.
Really?!
At last I get to meet
this Maebara boy
I've heard so much about.
There's something important
I should share with you,
Mister Maebara.
Avoid making
enemies around here.
These folks stick together,
and you don't wanna be
on the wrong side of 'em.
[IRIE] I think you've
made your point, Detective.
[OOISHI]
What's this?
Doctor Irie's chosen to join us!
You know, I'd been
thinking I might stop by
your clinic later
and have a word.
I would advise you to pick up
a warrant on your way.
Otherwise I'm afraid
you'd simply be
wasting both of our time.
[OOISHI laughs]
Well, I'll be in touch.
Bastard.
That hurt like hell.
How is there not even a mark?
One can infer he's practiced
that move quite a bit.
Comes with the job, perhaps.
What's his deal, anyway?
He told me he was
looking for Satoko.
So the man's ready to go back
to badgering Satoko, is he?
You would never guess by looking
at him what a snake he is.
You're a recent arrival
to Hinamizawa,
so I suppose this
is all news to you.
This may seem
like a strange question,
but have you heard about
the curse of Lord Oyashiro?
[KEIICHI]
That's what everyone blamed
when Satoko's
parents died, right?
'Cause they had been in
favor of building the dam.
[IRIE]
Good, we can skip ahead.
Satoko and Satoshi
had nowhere else to go
when their parents died.
They ended up
staying here in the village
with their aunt and uncle.
[KEIICHI]
Nobody told me about that.
Yes, their father's younger
brother and his wife
were the only family around
who could take them in.
And unfortunately,
those two were
not the sort of people
who could be trusted
to babysit children,
let alone raise them.
The moment they assumed
legal guardianship of
Satoko and Satoshi,
they immediately set
about looting everything
their parents had left to them.
They were abusive,
yelling at the kids for
everything and nothing,
forcing them to skip meals.
And they would beat
them relentlessly.
[IRIE] Back then,
Satoko wasn't the peppy,
energetic little girl you know.
She was having to go
through far too much.
I know her living situation's
not like that anymore.
What changed, exactly?
Indeed.
Just last year her aunt died
on the night of Watanagashi.
Beaten to death with a
baseball bat, to be specific,
by some miscreant
in a narcotic‐fueled rage.
[gasps]
Her uncle was convinced
that she'd been
a victim of the curse.
He abandoned the kids
and fled Hinamizawa.
[KEIICHI] And that's how Satoko
got away from him, right?
Exactly.
But then, another snake
slithered his way
onto the scene.
Kuraudo Ooishi.
[gasps]
That guy.
As you've seen,
he's a strange man.
Every incident attributed to
the curse has been investigated,
and they were all eventually
determined to be unfortunate
accidents or completely
mundane criminal acts.
But it seems the
fact that every case
was resolved isn't
enough to satisfy him.
In Hinamizawa, they came up
with a name for Ooishi.
They call him
"Lord Oyashiro's servant."
Lord Oyashiro's servant?
Hey, Rika.
You think Satoko is gonna
make it in time to eat with us?
If Rika's not
comfortable telling us,
we'll just have to wait.
For all we know, we might
be worrying over nothing.
Mion, why does it seem like you
know something about all this?
How's that?
[KEIICHI] You've been
acting sketchy all morning.
I heard something
from a council member.
Something that got me worried.
What was it?
We haven't told you
about Satoko's uncle.
You mean, that freaking bastard
who beat her up and starved her?
Oh, wow.
Guess you heard it
somewhere else.
His name is Teppei Hojo,
and apparently,
he turned up again
in Hinamizawa recently.
[SATOKO]
Huh?
[gasps]
Satoko!
[SATOKO sighs]
What is it, Keiichi?
Everybody's been worried sick!
Why did you get here
halfway through lunchtime?
[chuckles softly]
What a silly thing
to worry about.
Hey, Satoko?
Are you okay?
I'm sorry if
I caused you any concern.
My uncle just needed me
to run a few errands for him
before I came in.
On a school day?
He should do it for himself!
I'd really rather eat lunch than
talk about this, if we could.
I'm feeling quite peckish
at the moment.
Satoko.
Okay!
All five members present
and accounted for,
now it's time
to let the games begin!
Heck yeah, I'm ready to play!
Let's do it, Satoko!
[MION]
And just for today,
we're all gonna play
whatever you pick.
You call it, kiddo!
So c'mon, what's it gonna be?
That's a kind offer, thank you.
But I'm afraid
I have to decline.
Hey, wait, Satoko!
There's a penalty
if you leave early!
I don't remember which club rule
that is, but it is in there.
Let it slide, okay?
Now's not the time to push her.
I wasn't trying to.
[SATOKO]
Please, guys. I appreciate it.
Genuinely.
It's just...
I have things to take care
of that really can't wait.
[MION]
Satoko.
[KEIICHI]
Hey. We're friends, right?
On the same team?
Rika, can you please
tell us what's going on?
Mii.
[KEIICHI]
What happened?
[MION]
Please, Rika.
[RENA]
We all want to help.
Yesterday.
Satoko went out
to buy groceries,
and when the sun went down,
she still hadn't come home.
Satoko!
You had me worried.
Let's hurry up and start dinner!
Rika, wait.
I only came here to get
all my things packed up.
Huh?
My uncle has returned,
and I'm going to be
moving back in with him.
After that, she gathered up
her belongings like she said.
Everything is all moved out now.
So after all that's happened,
she's back in the same
crappy situation as before.
It'll be so much worse.
[KEIICHI]
Huh?
This time she
won't have Satoshi.
Satoshi was the only thing
that kept Satoko safe.
When things were at their worst,
her brother was always
there to protect her.
But now, with him gone,
Satoko will be cooped up in that
house all alone with her uncle.
[KEIICHI]
Dammit!
If we know that
he's abusing her,
isn't there somebody
who we can tell?
Yeah, that's right!
If we bring proof to the police.
We reported it before.
Last year,
I went to Child Welfare.
So what did they do about it?
[MION] They sent out a social
worker to check on things.
Then they interviewed
Satoko and Satoshi,
and then their aunt and uncle.
Why would they
interview the adults?
Well it would hardly be
fair to make a decision
without getting both sides of
the story first, now would it?
And what did
they say in the end?
"We'll stand by."
Stand by for what?
Their beatings hadn't left any
visible marks or bruises.
Not like they could
get 'em on video, either.
And no witnesses,
since it all happened at home.
Then what happened?
[MION]
You can guess.
The abuse only got
worse for both of them.
The authorities
couldn't fix things.
There has to be something
we can do to help Satoko, right?
Mii...
It's good to see
all of you this morning.
Ms. Furude.
And has Ms. Hojo
come along with you today?
Please study while I step out.
[CHIE]
A moment, Ms. Furude?
Ms. Hojo's uncle.
Is the rumor true?
[CHIE]
Then I know what's happening.
What now?
Huh?
If you know about
what's happening,
then what are you
going to do about it?
I can go visit her at her house,
and if I notice
anything wrong...
Then you'll report it
to Child Welfare, right?
They won't do anything
unless there's proof of abuse.
[CHIE]
You three!
You should all be in study hall!
[KEIICHI]
To hell with study hall, ma'am!
Satoko's in trouble,
and she needs our help!
I understand your frustration,
but until I've seen
her living situation,
I can't make
a report in good faith!
She's right.
I think it's best
if we let Ms. Chie
handle things for right now.
[RIKA]
I agree.
I think it's best
if we listen to Rena.
All right, if that's
fine with you, Rika.
[CHIE]
Class Rep.
Please escort them back.
Let's go.
[knocking]
[CHIE]
Hello.
Mister Hojo?
Are you home?
[TEPPEI]
Who the hell are you?
[CHIE]
You must be Satoko's uncle.
My name is Chie and I'm here on
behalf of the Hinamizawa school.
You her teacher?
Could I please speak
with Satoko for a bit?
Huh?
You ain't at school, what
the hell's there to talk about?
Satoko never
came to class today,
and nobody from her household
called to report her absence.
[TEPPEI] Oh yeah, she seems to
have come down with somethin'.
Full blown fever,
feelin' like shit all day.
[CHIE]
I see.
Will she be able
to come in tomorrow?
Like I would know!
You think I can see the
future or somethin' bitch?
[RENA]
How did it go, Ms. Chie?
[MION]
You went to visit, right?
So what happened?
You were waiting here
for me all this time?
Did she look hurt?
Was she doing okay?
I don't know.
I didn't get a chance
to talk to her.
[KEIICHI]
Then what was the point?
[sighs]
I already know what stopped you.
If he wouldn't let you see her,
you know that means
whatever he's doing
must have left a mark on her!
I'm sorry I couldn't help.
That's enough, Keiichi.
There's nothing else
Ms. Chie can do right now.
Damn it!
But at least we know
what's happening.
Satoko's bastard uncle
is keeping her
locked up in her house!
[RENA]
Yeah.
I think it should be enough.
I'll make the call to
Child Welfare Services.
If I tell them what we know,
I'm sure they'll be able
to help somehow.
They didn't help back
when I called,
but if a teacher was calling it,
it might get their attention.
[KEIICHI]
"Standing by"? What the hell?
Why won't they do anything?
They did.
Satoko's house
received a phone call
from Child Welfare Services,
and that was it.
So he feeds 'em some bullcrap,
and they decide
to stay on standby?
[SATOKO] Surely there's
no need to be so loud, is there?
[KEIICHI]
Satoko?
Yes. Now, would you
please quiet down?
Satoko! Is everything okay?
[MION] Child Welfare
Services called, right?
What'd they say?
Was that on one
of your accounts?
You gave us quite
a bit of hassle, if so.
None of us wanted to cause
any trouble for you, Satoko.
We were just worried about you.
So please,
tell us what happened!
I was home sick yesterday.
This morning I woke up healthy,
so I came to school as usual.
[chortles]
[KEIICHI]
Satoko, what are you saying?
Rika, what the hell's going on?
[RIKA]
When the social worker called,
Satoko just said,
"Everything is fine,"
and hung up
without another word.
Those morons!
They don't think
her uncle coached her
on what to say to them?
And they know this guy!
They came out before!
Actually, this one is
the third incident.
[KEIICHI]
For him?
For Satoko.
Third reported abuse incident.
I knew Mion called in to Child
Welfare Services last year.
Was that the second time?
Things in Satoko's
family were complicated.
She didn't live
with her actual father.
Her parents were separated.
They were with
her mom and stepdad.
It was much better than
when they were
with her aunt and uncle,
But even back then, they were
far from a happy family.
At one point,
she wanted her stepfather
out of the picture,
so she made a call to
Child Welfare Services
falsely claiming
he'd abused her.
[KEIICHI]
So that's it?
She made a
false report one time,
and now they're
on permanent standby?
[KEIICHI]
That's so stupid!
[school bell ringing]
[SATOKO]
Everyone!
I believe it's time for lunch!
Mii.
Lunch is always better
when all five of us are here!
Exactly right!
Yup.
And for you!
I do feel a bit guilty,
having to ask you to make
my lunch every day.
Don't worry, it's fine!
I consider it
a privilege to be able
to make a lovely lunch
for my dearest friend.
Rika.
[RIKA] And now I don't have
to eat the burnt Hamburg steak.
You poor, poor thing, Satoko!
Ni‐pah!
[laughs]
Yeah, that's Rika!
So, what's in your
lunchbox today, Mion?
[MION]
Once again,
I've gone with the leftover
party snack special.
[RENA] Same here,
last night's leftovers.
[RIKA] Ooh, daikon
left over from the night
before is the best kind!
Man, this whole
spread looks amazing!
It would be wasted
on you, Satoko,
but I'll tell you
how great it was
after I'm finished, sound good?
[SATOKO]
Excuse me?
I'll be sampling this
if you don't mind!
Dang it all!
[SATOKO chortles]
You would have really
enjoyed this daikon, Keiichi.
It's exquisite!
Jeez, you brat.
Hey, are you okay, Satoko?
Satoko, what's wrong?
[KEIICHI]
Whoa. Satoko, what is it?
[screams]
Easy, Satoko!
[SATOKO]
No!
I'm sorry! I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, I'm so sorry.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
I hate this. I hate this!
Please make it stop!
Forgive me! I can't take it!
[sobs]
I hate this!
I hate it, I hate it, I hate it!
[sobs]
No!
Nii‐nii! Please help me!
What is this?
What's happening to her?
[RIKA] Next time:
Tataridamashi‐hen, Part 3.